## Gratitude

As I reflect on the past few weeks, I am astonished by how much my life has changed. Until this spring, I was almost entirely committed to becoming a physician. I became a certified EMT, a hospital volunteer, an undergraduate researcher, and a teaching assistant to accomplish this goal. I studied neuroscience and biology because they seemed most aligned with my objectives. I sought advice from my peers, upperclassmen, university advisors, Reddit, The Student Doctor Network, and many more. However, the more I learned and reflected on why I wanted to become a physician, the more disillusioned I became. I discovered no passion in the prospect of becoming a physician. I realized that I caved into the parental pressures more than I had expected. Despite the profession's rewarding and honorable nature, I simply couldn't envision myself being happy as a physician. But what were my options? I was a rising senior about to graduate into a recession with a degree in biology. The uncertainty and near guarantee of unemployment post-graduation was deeply troubling. Worst of all, I had no idea what I wanted to do or could do moving forward. I was lost.

By the end of my junior year's fall semester, I was already taking steps to proactively alter my life's trajectory. I didn't have enough time to complete a bachelor's degree in computer science, despite having taken courses, nor did I have the time to change to another major. So, I applied to a plethora of biotech internships. As expected, I didn't hear back from most of them, and those that responded rejected me. This wasn't too surprising, considering most of my activities were geared towards medical school applications. My lucky break came when one of the companies to which I had applied invited applicants to participate in a virtual internship fair with the managers of their internship program. It was here that I found a glimmer of hope. This hope came in the form of an internship position I stumbled upon by chance. The virtual internship fair had a catalog of internships ordered by the number of people waiting to speak with their representatives. The more popular internships were at the top, while finding the less popular ones required scrolling down for a solid 10 seconds. Seeing that 30 people were waiting to chat for 10 minutes with the representatives of the top internships, I calculated that it wouldn't be worth waiting for five hours to speak with one person. Thus, I decided to scroll down to the least popular internships with zero people in queue to see if anything piqued my interest. Interestingly, there was a pathology internship with zero people in queue. I found it odd that the digital pathology internship had over 20 students waiting, so I decided to investigate. As soon as I entered the virtual meeting room, I was greeted and then cautioned that this internship was not a wet lab internship; if I wanted to do wet lab work, this probably wasn't the internship for me. This was entirely fine for me as I didn't have a particular interest in the lab and was happy for any form of employment. To my pleasant surprise, I immediately connected with the project and the representative. My modest research background in image analysis in biological systems and my interest in computer science made me, in my mind at least, an ideal candidate for generating high-quality labeled pathology data for developing segmentation apps. Our conversation went exceedingly well, leading to a more extended interview and eventually, an offer, which I accepted without hesitation.

During the first week of my internship, I was repeatedly confronted by the potential of machine learning in the field of tissue analysis. As I generated labeled data for a macrostructure identification application designed for stained tissues, I constantly found myself marveling at how we, as humans, could develop such sophisticated algorithms. I had never been so interested in a topic that it kept me awake at night. When I expressed my nearly obsessive interest to my manager, he enthusiastically arranged meetings for me to have with our machine learning specialist. These meetings led me to the realization that even I, as a biology and neuroscience major, could find a niche in the field of machine learning - provided I was willing to invest the necessary work and effort. Although the future of machine learning is shrouded in uncertainty, I found myself irresistibly drawn to it, unable to envision a career in any other discipline. I understand that it might seem naive to commit to this field, as I once did with medicine, but my past experiences have taught me that a goal devoid of genuine passion inevitably leads to a profound sense of emptiness. Today I am grateful that I can feel more alive than ever.
